The book of the words of righteousness, and of the reprimand of the eternal
Watchers in accordance with the command of the Holy Great One in that vision I
saw in my sleep.
2 What I will now say with a tongue of flesh and with the breath of my mouth,
which the Great One has given to men to converse therewith and understand
with the heart.
3 As He has created and given to man the power of understanding the word of
wisdom, so hath He created me also and given me the power of reprimanding the
Watchers, the children of heaven.
4 "I wrote out your petition, and in my vision it appeared thus, that your petition
will not be granted unto you throughout all the days of eternity, and that
judgement has been finally passed upon you.
5 Your petition will not be granted unto you. And from henceforth you shall not
ascend into heaven unto all eternity, and in bonds of the earth the decree has
gone forth to bind you for all the days of the world.
6 And previously you shall have seen the destruction of your beloved sons and
ye shall have no pleasure in them, but they shall fall before you by the sword.
7 And your petition on their behalf shall not be granted, nor yet on your own
even though you weep and pray and speak all the words contained in the writing
which I have written.
8 And the vision was shown to me thus: Behold, in the vision clouds invited me
and a mist summoned me, and the course of the stars and the lightnings sped and
hastened me, and the winds in the vision caused me to fly and lifted me upward,
and bore me into heaven.
9 And I went in till I drew nigh to a wall which is built of crystals and
surrounded by tongues of fire: and it began to affright me.
10 And I went into the tongues of fire and drew nigh to a large house which was
built of crystals and the walls of the house were like a tesselated floor made of
crystals, and its groundwork was of crystal.
11 Its ceiling was like the path of the stars and the lightnings, and between them
were fiery cherubim, and their heaven was water.
12 A flaming fire surrounded the walls, and its portals blazed with fire.
13 And I entered into that house, and it was hot as fire and cold as ice. There
were no delights of life therein; fear covered me, and trembling got hold upon
me.
14 And as I quaked and trembled, I fell upon my face and I beheld a vision, and
lo! there was a second house, greater than the former, and the entire portal stood
open before me, and it was built of flames of fire.
15 And in every respect it so excelled in splendor and magnificence and extent
that I cannot describe to you its splendor and its extent.
16 And its floor was of fire, and above it were lightnings and the path of the
stars, and its ceiling also was flaming fire. And I looked and saw therein a lofty
throne, its appearance was as crystal, and the wheels thereof as the shining sun,
and there was the vision of cherubim.
17 And from underneath the throne came streams of flaming fire so that I could
not look thereon.
18 And the Great Glory sat thereon, and His raiment shone more brightly than
the sun and was whiter than any snow.
19 None of the angels could enter and could behold His face by reason of the
magnificence and glory and no flesh could behold Him.
20 The flaming fire was round about Him, and a great fire stood before Him, and
none around could draw nigh Him; ten thousand times ten thousand were before
Him, yet He needed no counselor.
21 And the most holy ones who were nigh to Him did not leave by night nor
depart from Him. And until then I had been prostrate on my face, trembling and
the Lord called me with His own mouth, and said to me: "Come hither, Enoch,
and hear my word."
22 And one of the holy ones came to me and waked me, and He made me rise up
and approach the door, and I bowed my face downwards.
23 And He answered and said to me, and I heard His voice: "Fear not, Enoch,
thou righteous man and scribe of righteousness. Approach hither and hear my
voice.
24 And go, say to the Watchers of heaven, who have sent thee to intercede for
them: 'You should intercede for men, and not men for you. Wherefore have ye
left the high, holy, and eternal heaven, and lain with women, and defiled
yourselves with the daughters of men and taken to yourselves wives, and done
like the children of earth, and begotten giants as your sons.
25 And though ye were holy, spiritual, living the eternal life, you have defiled
yourselves with the blood of women, and have begotten with the blood of flesh,
and, as the children of men, have lusted after flesh and blood as those also do
who die and perish.
26 Therefore have I given them wives also that they might impregnate them, and
beget children by them, that thus nothing might be wanting to them on earth.
27 But you were formerly spiritual, living the eternal life, and immortal for all
generations of the world. And therefore I have not appointed wives for you; for
as for the spiritual ones of the heaven, in heaven is their dwelling.
28 And now, the giants, who are produced from the spirits and flesh, shall be
called evil spirits upon the earth, and on the earth shall be their dwelling.
29 Evil spirits have proceeded from their bodies; because they are born from
men and from the Watchers is their beginning and primal origin; they shall be
evil spirits on earth, and evil spirits shall they be called.
30 And the spirits of the giants afflict, oppress, destroy, attack, do battle, and
work destruction on the earth, and cause trouble. They take no food, but
nevertheless hunger and thirst, and cause offences.
31 And these spirits shall rise up against the children of men and against the
women, because they have proceeded from them.
32 From the days of the slaughter and destruction and death of the giants, from
the souls of whose flesh the spirits, having gone forth, shall destroy without
incurring judgement, thus shall they destroy until the day of the consummation,
the great judgement in which the age shall be consummated, over the Watchers
and the godless, yea, shall be wholly consummated.
33 And now as to the Watchers who have sent thee to intercede for them, who
had been aforetime in heaven, say to them: "You have been in heaven, but all the
mysteries had not yet been revealed to you, and you knew worthless ones, and
these in the hardness of your hearts you have made known to the women, and
through these mysteries women and men work much evil on earth."
34 Say to them therefore: "You have no
